# Airline-On-Time-Metrics
The Capstone for my graduate degree in Data Analytics.  An analysis of the relationship between departure and arrival delays.

## Project Overview
Using data freely available from the [U.S. Department of Transportation Statistics](https://www.bts.dot.gov/airline-data-downloads) this analysis seeks to confirm the relationship between departure and arrival delays at three major U.S. airlines between 2009 and 2019.  With the strength of the departure/arrival delay relationship confimed we seek to determine if that relationship has gotten better or worse over the analysis period.  Lastly comparing the scheduled block time (SBT) between 2009 and 2019 to see if any changes in SBT might be responsible for changes in the departure/arrival delay relationship.
<br/>  
The rationale for this analysis is to confirm the relationship between departure and arrival delays.  This relatinship is important in analyzing airline on-time preformance in the United States since the U.S. Department of Transpotation measures carrier performance by measuring arrival delays greater then 15 minutes (A15).  However, a lot can happen from block out to block in so the operators do not fully control the A15 metric so they measure delays greater than 0 minutes past scheduled departure time (D0).  The assumption that controlling the aspects within their control airlines are able to influnce A15.  With the linear nature of airline flight operations it is expected that this relationship will be confirmed and be quite strong.  The examination of any changes to the departure and arrival delay relationship are then looked into with a focus on what impact consolidation over the analysis period may have. 
